# EmpowerChain Release Life Cycle

## Versioning

For blockchain code versioning, we use standard [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) schema, which is respected in a following way:
- **MAJOR** is incremented every time when there is a consensus-breaking change (software upgrade is being performed)
- **MINOR** is incremented when new funcionalities are being added in a non-consensus-breaking way or a major patch to current functionalities is being introduced
- **PATCH** is incremented on small hotfixes and bugfixes (non-consensus-breaking)

## Changelog

*empowerchain* repository contains a *chain/CHANGELOG.md* file, where all changes are being tracked. It's structurized based on a [Keep a changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/) format. GitHub Actions is in place that allows automatic changelog generation based on the commits. It accepts *base* and *new* version numbers, which it uses to pick the right changes.
Additionaly, every software upgrade has it's own *RELEASE_NOTES.md* in *chain/app/upgrades/MAJOR_VERSION/*, which is also created with the mentioned GitHub Action. Creating a new release should be done by performing steps below:

1. Agree on a commit on a main branch, which should become a release.
2. Run Changelog generation GitHub Action (it will create a PR with changelog update).
3. Modify automatically generated changelog as needed. Add important information about the upgrade if it's missing in the autogenerated part.
4. Merge PR.
5. Tag a resulting commit with a correct version.

After a commit on main is tagged with a version, release GitHub Action will run and create a new release.

6. Modify release description if needed (it's taken from *RELEASE_NOTES.md*).